---
layout: default
type: coffee
---

## [Coffee](.) / Chemex ##

Beans: 40.0g @ 25clicks on Baratza Encore

Water: 600g @ 204°F

Filter: Brown Chemex Filter

Other: Spoon

### Writeup ###

Start out by putting the kettle on to boil. Grab a fresh filter. Folding this
filter is a bit complicated. Leave the filter in the square shape. The filter
is "folded" by simply pulling apart the open edge. It should have 1 layer of
filter paper on one side and 3 layers on the other. Place the thick side toward
the spout of the Chemex. Now drop in about 50g beans into your grinder. On the
Baratza I grind at about 22 clicks, which is a fairly course grind. Because the
filter is so naturally impermeable, fine grinds tend to over extract.  When the
water is fairly hot, pour about 300-400g through the filter. The filters can be
very paper-y if you don't rinse them well.

Pour out the water into the mugs you'll be serving your coffee in. This warms the
mugs and will keep your coffee hot longer. 

Dump the grounds into the Chemex. Give the chemex a good shake to
settle the grounds into a flat bed. Using the spoon or a knuckle create a bit
of a dimple in order to get an even first pour. Next pour in about 100g of
water. The coffee (if it's fresh) should rise as it absorbs the water. This is
the "bloom" that coffee people talk about. After waiting a bit for the grounds
to bloom (about 30 seconds) you should give the grounds a good stir and pour in
water until the chemex is full. You will probably hit around 450g total water
at that point. After you finish pouring, give the grounds a bit of a stir.
After the water falls about an inch below the top of the chemex, give it
another pour and stir. Do this one more time and you shit hit 700g. After it
drains out, toss the filter and enjoy.

### Rough Timeline ###

0:00

    Water should be 200-205°F
    Wet filter with 300-400g of water
    Pour in 50g of grounds
    Add roughly 100g of water

0:30

    Fill chemex to the top (roughly 350g)

1:00

    Stir grounds to break crust

1:30

    Pour another 125g
    Stir grounds

2:30

    Pour another 125g
    Stir grounds

4:00

    Finished Dripping
    Toss Filter

### Notes ###

Lots of the same notes as the v60 but a notably cleaner cup. Using a coarser
grind gets rid of the paper-y taste

### Dialed In Values ###

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Bean Source</th>
      <th scope="col">Date</th>
      <th scope="col">Coffee (g)</th>
      <th scope="col">Water (g)</th>
      <th scope="col">Water Temp F</th>
      <th scope="col">Relative Grind</th>
      <th scope="col">Brew Time</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Reveal Blonde</td>
      <td>02/20/14 13:30</td>
      <td>60.2</td>
      <td>900.0</td>
      <td>204</td>
      <td>26</td>
      <td>5:01.04</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
