---
layout: default
type: coffee
---

## [Coffee](.) / Moka Pot ##

### Base Values ###

This is for the 'Bialetti 6 cup' moka pot. The fill line on mine is around 300g
of water which is almost the size of one of my mugs.

Beans: 30g @ 12clicks on Baratza Encore

Water: 280g @ 212°F

Brew Time: 2.5 minutes

### Writeup ###

First let me describe the moka pot at a high level. The coffee is created by
heating up water in the bottom chamber until it turns into steam and flows up
through the grounds into the top chamber. You unscrew the bottom half and
pour in water. Drop in the metal filter and put coffee in it. Screw the top on
and boil until coffee comes out.

Now the actual process. Start by boiling 275g of fresh water either in a kettle
or the bottom half of the moka pot. We do this separately so the coffee grounds
don't cook while the water comes to a boil. While waiting measure out 24g of
coffee beans and grind them. I've read "drip" in some places; I grind them
somewhat more finely than I do for pour overs.

Once the water has come to a boil pour it into the bottom chamber. Drop the
metal filter in and pour in coffee grounds. Use a spoon or your finger to
flatten out the grounds as you go. After pouring in the grounds, "tamp" down
the groups with a flat bottomed cup or similar. I've found that this gives a
more consistent extraction. Screw on the top fairly tightly and place the whole
thing on a burner.

This next part requires a bit of finesse. You don't want to stop boiling water
before it all leaves the bottom chamber, but you also don't want to keep
applying heat for too long after. Put the flame on some medium setting so you
don't melt the plastic bits or overheat the top chamber. If you started with
boiling water, after about a minute you should see coffee in the top chamber.
Watch the stream of coffee carefully as it changes color. After it slows and
changes to more of a yellow you should be okay to shut off the burner. Pour the
coffee into mug and enjoy.

Cleaning is a bit of a pain so normally I wait till it cools a bit then dump
the groups and run water through the whole thing.

### Rough Timeline ###

0:00

    Water should be 212°F
    Fill lower chamber until fill line (300g)
    Pour in 24g of beans and tamp
    Place on burner at medium

1:00

    Coffee begins to flow into the top chamber

2:00

    Coffee flow turns from brown to yellow / begins to slow
    Remove from heat

### Notes ###

### Dialed In Values ###

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Bean Source</th>
      <th scope="col">Date</th>
      <th scope="col">Coffee (g)</th>
      <th scope="col">Water (g)</th>
      <th scope="col">Water Temp (ºF)</th>
      <th scope="col">Relative Grind</th>
      <th scope="col">Time to Boil Over</th>
      <th scope="col">Brew Time</th>
      <th scope="col">Yield Mass (g)</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Bicycle Coffee co Medium Roast</td>
      <td>03/01/14 13:48</td>
      <td>24.0</td>
      <td>277.0</td>
      <td>212</td>
      <td>11</td>
      <td>---</td>
      <td>---</td>
      <td>225.1</td>
    </tr>
     <tr>
      <td>Four Barrel Robot Mata Ethiopia</td>
      <td>03/15/14 15:35</td>
      <td>29.8</td>
      <td>281.2</td>
      <td>212</td>
      <td>12</td>
      <td>1:23.41</td>
      <td>2:15.86</td>
      <td>224.5</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
