---
layout: coffee
type:   coffee

title: Hario V60

notes:
  Whoa adding the spoon totally adds crazy amounts of acid that wasn't present
  before. I've tried this a few times thinking maybe the spoon was contaminated
  but it seems to be repeatable. It still has a bit of the caramel and toffee
  but bam all of a sudden citrus.

timeline:
  0:
    - Water should be 200-205°F
    - Wet filter with 100-200g of water
    - Pour in 36g of grounds
    - Add roughly 2x number of grams of beans in water (72g)
  30:
    - Pour around 150g of water to roughly fill the V60.
    - Stir grounds
  60:
    - Pour another 100g water to roughly fill V60
    - Stir grounds

  90:
    - Pour another 100g water to roughly fill V60
    - Stir grounds
  120:
    - Top off
    - Stir grounds
  180:
    - Finished dripping
    - Toss Filter

dial:
  -
    source: Reveal Blonde
    date:   02/12/14 14:35
    coffee: 40
    water:  501.4
    temp:   204
    grind:  25
    time:   2:00.00
    yield:
  -
    source: Reveal Blonde Iced
    date:
    coffee: 43.3
    water:  349.0
    temp:   200
    grind:  21
    time:
    yield:
  -
    source: Reveal Dark
    date:
    coffee: 42.2
    water:  587.1
    temp:   190
    grind:  12
    time:
    yield:
  -
    source: Sightglass Cubito
    date:
    coffee: 36.4
    water:  503.1
    temp:   202
    grind:  17
    time:
    yield:
  -
    source: Ritual El Angel
    date:
    coffee: 36.1
    water:  500.1
    temp:   205
    grind:  22
    time:
    yield:
  -
    source: Cuvée
    date:   1/24/14 14:10
    coffee: 38.0
    water:  502.0
    temp:   203
    grind:  22
    time:   2:53.85
    yield:
  -
    source: Verve Coffee Pulcal
    date:   3/24/14 11:10
    coffee: 36.7
    water:  504.7
    temp:   205
    grind:  20
    time:   3:05.33
    yield:  437.2
  -
    source: Blue Bottle El Majahual
    date:   4/1/14 10:55
    coffee: 36.6
    water:  500.0
    temp:   205
    grind:  18
    time:   3:52.86
    yield:  424.7
  -
    source: Roast Co. Worka
    date:   4/21/14 14:30
    coffee: 25
    water:  351
    temp:   203
    grind:  20
    time:   3:20.50
    yield:
  -
    source: Roast Co. Huila Valencia
    date:   4/28/14 11:21
    coffee: 25.5
    water:  350.0
    temp:   203
    grind:  20
    time:   2:24.21
    yield:  302.3
  -
    source: Verve Coffee Pulcal
    date:   5/13/14 11:35
    coffee: 25.3
    water:  349.0
    temp:   205
    grind:  19
    time:   3:10
    yield:  295.7
---
Beans: 36g @ 18clicks on Baratza Encore

Water: 500g @ 205°F

Filter: Brown V60 02

Brew Time: 3 minutes

Other: Spoon

### Writeup ###

Put the kettle on to boil and fold out fresh filter. A filter can be folded by
folding down the cone along the ridge created by the seam. I tend to use water
that is a bit off boil (around 200°F-205°F) depending on the age of the coffee.
Then measure out roughly 37g of beans. Generally I measure out a gram or two
extra because the grinder eats a bit. Be sure to check that your grinder is set
correctly; my grinder is usually good on 17 clicks but it varies significantly
with model and specific instance. When the water is hot, pour water all around
the filter to get it thoroughly wet. This also warms up the cone and mug/pot.
Run your beans through the grinder and discard the water you used to clean the
filter. If you are using a pot, pour the water in the cups you are going to
pour into to heat them up. Prep is now done.

Now pour about 36g of grounds into the wet filter. Shake the V60 a bit to
settle the grounds and then add a little dimple with a knuckle or the spoon.
This helps create an even first pour; the cone is deep in the middle so adding
a little dimple means the water can more evenly wet the grounds. Start by
pouring 70-100g of water. The coffee will "bloom" if its fresh. The grounds
should rise up and form a dome shape as they absorb water. After 30 seconds the
water should have stopped dripping and you add about 150g of water. This
roughly fills an 02 V60. I then took my spoon and stirred the coffee grounds
a tiny bit. Pour around another 100-150g of water when the water level
approaches the coffee level and stir the grounds a bit. Then I topped it off to
500g in total. After it finishes draining, drop the filter in the trash and
enjoy!
