---
layout: coffee
type:   coffee

title: Technivorm

notes:

timeline:
  0:
    - Pour cool / lukewarm water into water basin
    - Put basin top on
    - Fold filter and place into cone
    - Wet filter and drain water
    - Pour in 70g of grounds
    - Close valve on filter cone
    - Turn machine on
  60:
    - Turn off machine
    - Stir grounds
    - Open valve
  90:
    - Turn on machine
  1200:
    - Turn off machine
    - Toss filter
    - Rinse cone
    - Switch caps


dial:
  -
    source: Blue Bottle Bella Donovan
    date:   04/25/14 10:25
    coffee: 71
    water:  1215.1
    temp:   cool
    grind:  19
    time:   20:15
    yield:
  -
    source: Verve Coffee The Sermon
    date:   05/02/14 11:00
    coffee: 72.5
    water:  1202.0
    temp:   body temperature
    grind:  19
    time:   20:15
    yield:
  -
    source: Verve Coffee Karatina
    date:   05/15/14 9:30
    coffee: 70.0
    water:  1215.1
    temp:   cool
    grind:  19
    time:   15:01
    yield:  1095.0
---

Beans: 75g @ 18clicks on Baratza Encore

Water: 1200g

Filter: Bleached Melitta No 4

Brew Time: 20 minutes

Other: Spoon

### Writeup ###

The Technivorm is an auto-drip machine so you can definitely not futz with it
at all, but a few tweaks really help pull out good coffee. First, you want to
start with around 75 grams of good beans. Depending on the coffee you might go
as high as 80 or as low as 70, but 75 is a good place to start. I generally
grind a bit coarser than I would for pour over. With that much coffee, you
should fill the Technivorm's water basin to full (marked "10") which is roughly
1200g of water. Something to consider is the temperature of the water you put
in. My model of Technivorm controls the rate of water only via temperature so
putting hot water in means that water basically streams straight through the
machine. Cold water means that the drip takes forever. I find water around 90F
works best.

Next fold the filter along the bottom edge and then side edge. Then pop it open
and place it in the filter cone. Pour a bit of water in and let it drain to get
the filter wet. Pour in the grounds and form a bit of a bowl with a spoon. Make
sure that the valve on the bottom of the filter cone is shut. The Moccamaster
pot comes with two tops. The one you want looks like a long funnel. That helps
channel the pour into the pot without releasing too much heat as it brews.

Turn on the machine and let enough water to soak the grounds into the cone.
Turn off the machine. Let the grounds bloom (rise) and then give it a good
stir Open the valve on the filter cone and then turn the machine back on. At
this point you just need to wait until its all done. After it finishes
dripping, unscrew the funnel top and replace it with the cap. You can pour
coffee out with the cap top as long as its a bit unscrewed. Make sure to toss
the filter and rinse out the filter cone so your friends / coworkers don't
resent you ;).

I usually monitor the machine a bit because different beans / temperatures can
cause overflows. If you find the machine is going to / is overflowing don't
panic! Simple shut off the machine and let it drain for a bit. Give it a little
stir. Things will be okay.
